now Audrey you Charlie it's you I just
never really saw you before the way I'm
seeing you now I'm meeting a different
person who are you Charlie
okay off comes the coat hey everyone
Greg and Ryan here for another breakdown
of Twin Peaks the return this is part 15
this episode has some heartwarming
moments frustrating moments and a moment
we may have been waiting for all season
long and a coffee percolator possibly
impersonating David Bowie there is
definitely something fishy in that
percolator now before we get started
don't forget to subscribe to the
Universe channel we've got Game of
Thrones Rick and Morty and of course
twin piece there were a lot of scenes
with perilously little plot in the town
of Twin Peaks this week mostly
fanservice and touching tributes if you
thought James singing in the Roadhouse
was the biggest fan service so far well
that's got nothing on Norma and Edie
scene now the opening act so far we got
to kinda sorta confirmations with Norma
Nadine and eggs so Nadine and Edie were
still together apparently and since she
woke up from her cheerleading phase High
School teen drama thing that happened
that blew my theory that she might
actually gone back to Mike somewhere in
the interim period of time blew that out
it seems like maybe they were kind of
estranged though we didn't really see
them together earlier in the season at
all and we only see her alone probably
in the office of her shop or maybe at
home yeah so you could see definitely
that you know that strut down the street
with the gold shovel was like you know
she she finally got over it Edie you are
three I say this every week but patience
again another scene where we get Edie
just meditating thinking of a world
better than the one he's in right now
probably
we get the moment that we've all been
waiting for with Otis Redding I've been
so the rest of that scene is Norma
giving up her relationship with Walter
in the franchise business of the Double
R chain to maintain the original as is
and then hookin up with it and you know
it's a great heartwarming moment it's
really you know that moment
Shelly is the audience that scene
because first you think that oh is this
a dream is he making this up in their
head but the editor and David Lynch give
us a moment with Shelly just to give us
a little bit confirmation that this
might be real at least right it's not
all in big Ed's head yes it's all very
optimistic it's just about the only good
thing that's happened in the town of
Twin Peaks
[Music]
we also see Stephen and Gersten Hayward
for the first time and possibly the last
time in a while they're out in the woods
Stephen is borderline incoherent lately
whacked out on drugs and talking about
suicide after a dog walker disrupts
their moment Kirsten flees and we hear a
gunshot we don't see Stephen shoot
himself
the little odd considering all of the
explosive head gore we've seen this
season but if he is dead it would give
some insight into where we are in the
timeline I honestly had to turn on
subtitles to understand half of his
dialogue I'm glad I did too because even
though I don't see much significance in
it Stephen saying will I be with the
rhinoceros the lightning in the bottle
or will I be like completely turquoise
is some classically eerie twin peaks'
dialogue if anybody has a deeper reading
on that let us know in the comments -
there is one thing that happens in the
town of Twin Peaks that is potentially
significant to the plot yes
[Applause]
[Music]
no no no not ZZ Top we're talking about
James and Freddie beginning some
fisticuffs with Renee's boyfriend
husband husband I think husband Chuck
yeah husband she has a ring at one point
she also doesn't have a ring at another
point not getting into that quick aside
here I don't think this is Charlie and
Audrey's Chuck of Chuck and Tina who may
or may not have been at Megan's house
when Billy showed up all bloody and was
seen for the last time those worlds are
still not tangibly connected Freddie
promptly dispatches the two guys with
his pile-driving green glove and lands
the two of them in twin peaks' jail of
likely significance here is that Freddy
is now with NATO and was likely
dispatched by the firemen to protect her
everybody who was worried about NATO
safety last week to thinking like maybe
Andi locked her up in a dangerous spot
well now you got Freddy in there
even though Twin Peaks proper didn't
advance the plot in this part Frost and
Lynch do jump us over to Las Vegas to
wrap a few things up first
and I have to eat my hat on this one
last week I said by the way those two
guys they seem like maybe mildly more
competent than the fusco brothers we
don't know it's a motel the FBI agents
are clearly spinning their wheels they
brought in an entire family who were
clearly the wrong people at this point
it seems highly unlikely that at the end
of 18 parts the long arm of the law in
Las Vegas will have figured anything out
why that might not matter we'll get into
a little later meanwhile also in Las
Vegas the two most competent hatchet
woman and man in the series show up to
dispatch the positively most incompetent
hatchet man in the series I'm gonna go
on record saying I feel sorry for Duncan
Todd guy was being manipulated and who
knows at what threat by mr. Cooper with
the misfortune of understanding just how
dangerous and precarious his situation
was maybe his fear of Cooper kept him
from making a single good decision ever
afterward we get another excellent
Tarantino ask criminals waxing
philosophical moment here mark frost
recalls the extermination of Native
Americans significant to his novel the
secret history of Twin Peaks as Hutchins
Chantell reflect on the hypocrisy of
state sanctioned murder here Chantelle
also laments not being able to torture
anyone in a long time I feel like this
may be the last time we see Chantelle
and Hutch it at the very least it might
be the last time we get any of this
really delicious dialogue yeah I'm not
sure just yet if it's gonna be Sean
Hall's last scene because he does say on
the phone one down one more to go these
scenes again could be taken out of order
so that could be warden Murphy they're
talking about right so we don't know
okay I just want to get this out of the
way before we get to the two Cooper's
because it's driving us all nuts we have
our third scene at the home of Audrey
and Charlie this time they are at the
front damn door so they don't get out of
the house the scene ends with Audrey
angrily assaulting Charlie
at this point we have to figure that one
of the many theories out there has to be
about right we've got the comma
we've got Charlie as a therapist we've
got Charlie as a writer who's writing
something about the Roadhouse I'm
leaning towards coma but it could also
just be a theater performance what if
they're all just performing and then
they have very end of it they look at
the camera and then we get an audience
just clapping you know honestly I can
see that it's an isolated set it's in a
single house it's like a Mamet Eska type
thing and now my favorite part of every
recap Dougie Jones our weekly check-in
with dougie Jones and here's the big
question is this our last weekly
check-in with dougie Jones we got a
comment right before the episode from
Illuminati me on Twitter who says I'm
dead set that tonight will prove if
dougie stays dougie for the rest of the
series at this point I would love
nothing more at part 16 opens up at a
funeral for dougie Jones I'd also like
to slip in here a little wingnut theory
I have going right now which is that
Jani E and sonny jim are actually mrs.
Tremont and her grandson so that once
dougie is shocked out of dougie and he
becomes Dale again he finds he's in like
a totally different place like it's it's
not the same family it's not the same
people Naomi Watts is gone sure it
starts innocently enough
like many dougie scenes before it
opening with dougie eating and Janie E
talking about how happy she is with
their marriage after Janie leaves Dougie
turns on the TV which is showing Billy
Wilder's Sunset Boulevard and then this
happens after maybe being partially
awakened by the name of his former
commander dougie proceeds to crawl to a
light socket and well
[Music]
sure just bring them back I don't give a
damn how you bring them back at this
point is Dale back
was it Sunset Boulevard I mean it wasn't
cherry pie
it wasn't coffee it wasn't taking out
like the spike it wasn't getting the
Twin Peaks or seeing any of the people
he used to know it was a clip from
Sunset Boulevard Gordon Cole finally
let's check in with mr. C and his
journey to the Dutchman's aka the
convenience store it seems very likely
that the Dutchman's was code for the
world above the convenience store
Dutchman's could stand for the flying
Dutchman's ship it was a legendary go
ship that can never make it to port and
is doomed to sail the oceans forever mr.
C is looking for Phillip Jefferies I'm
looking for Phillip Jefferies we see the
same room from fire walk with me that
was in Laura's dream and this might be
the same woodsman who sat at his post
years ago in fire walk with me he
activates an electrical generator and
the jumpy man returns for a brief moment
now reddit points out that the scene
with the jumping man and the face is
turning there's a quick shots everywhere
in there and one of them is Sarah Palmer
now a lot of people think there's also
Leland in there or David Bowie but if
you keep slowing it down and looking at
your frame by frame it's actually a
bunch of different people's faces
changing so it's not just two people or
it's not just Sarah it might be a few
more so I don't know where they're going
with that just yet but they definitely
have Sarah's face in there mr. C has
then led through another corridor to the
stairs we saw in Gordon Cole's vision in
South Dakota where Hastings and
Davenport were murdered at the top of
the stairs there's a short hallway that
leads to a door which mr. C opens onto a
motel parking lot now this is the red
Diamond City motel from fire walk with
me where Leland almost sleeps with
Theresa run net and his daughter Laura
and where when he flees he crosses the
jumpring Tremont kid mr. C goes to a
corner room but physically this is not
the same room that Leland stayed in with
Teresa banks that's actually on the
other side of the parking lot he
proceeds into the motel room where the
lights flicker and then the wall sort of
slides away and reveals a white Lodge
esque room sized heater or ventilation
device some have called it a tea kettle
there is a telltale Lynch spotlight
illuminating the steam that emanates
the thing Jeffery's it looks like we're
going to find out who judy is once and
for all
very Singh who is Judy does Judy want
something from me
Jeffries gets mr. see some coordinates
that seem to be the same ones at the FBI
pulled off a Ruth Davenport's body a few
parts back now my heart still says it
could be major Briggs aka Judy Garland
but I feel like this kind of confirms
they're gonna show somebody and it may
not be an inanimate object such as a
kettle or a tree it could be a real
human this time so if that's the case
then I'm gonna go with Sarah Palmer I'm
with you I can see Sarah Palmer it makes
sense that she wanted to be back with
Bob again yeah she could have been the
one that called mr. C earlier in the
season for all we know and that's kind
of interesting too because maybe lends
to this idea that you know the dark
forces in the world or have just been
scattered just about as much as the good
forces and they're just trying to get
back together yeah
like Martha the bomb exploded it's like
getting Bob back to the mother yeah it
could be mother experiment jumping man
using Sarah as a vessel to talk to mr. C
for all we know to get him back who is
this
okay everyone who do you think Judy is
in the comments section below is it
major Briggs is it Laura Palmer or is it
Sarah Palmer or someone else entirely
different let us know in the comments
section below
oh Linda where the [ __ ] is Linda
so after sort of taking a phone call in
the motel room that transports him out
to the front of the convenience store
mr. Cooper is confronted by Richard horn
and Richard recognizes him from
photographs that belong to his mom
Audrey Horne now mr. C quickly disarms
him and tells him to never threaten him
again and then get in the truck I think
we're about to see that father-son
roadtrip that we've been waiting for now
I just want to pick up a couple of small
details on the back side of talking
about mr. c1 he says to Jeffries are you
the one who called me five days ago that
places this moment squarely in space and
time for the timeline of things the
phone call was of course from the motel
room way at the beginning of the season
right after mr. C throws Richard into
the car he sends his text message Las
Vegas to Diane now she received that
text message a few parts ago and that
gives us another sort of angle of what
the space and time relationship is it
kind of helps out a little bit because I
think now we can tell that the events
moving forward are starting to converge
a little bit even if the timelines are a
little wonky in all the parts
it also helps answer the question of how
Diane had the coordinates and didn't
communicate them to mr. C yes and it
turns out that she got the coordinates
on the same night that he got the
coordinates the way that Phillip Jeffery
said you are Cooper
I'm I'm still kind of on this thing that
like good Dale bad Dale is like almost
like this an interpretation his soul or
his mine he has something there because
he does remember things from Dale
because Dale the real Dale Cooper was in
that scene in 1989 right not bad deal
right we think exactly but right and so
there is a there is still Dale in Cooper
you can tell too that you know compared
to how what a like loose cannon wingnut
Lee when Palmer was with bobbin and Dale
Cooper with Bob and him is calculating
still intelligent still inquisitive
still trying to figure things out yeah
it's it's still Cooper lastly we want to
give a farewell to a character we're
going to miss dearly from Twin Peaks
[Music]
don't let your love
no no no we're talking about the law
lady I've never seen anything like this
before it was meta it was touching it
was beautiful the lights go out at the
very end and the beautiful bottle of
mint tea score yeah it was gorgeous okay
now we got a few Easter eggs and
comments to go to I really like this one
mark frost the co-creator of Twin Peaks
and author of Twin Peaks the return
shows up in a little cameo nope nope
secret history God mark frost the
co-creator of Twin Peaks and author of
the secret history of Twin Peaks shows
up as the dog walker in the forest with
the Steven and Kirsten scene another one
I really liked was that you know this
episode didn't end with a road house
number and instead we had credits
rolling over the red diamond Motel and
right at the end you can see the creepy
bosomy woman standing just in the
darkness in the garage or the shed or
whatever that is is that Judy or Linda
it's Linda
it's got to be Linda we got it Linda
boom died another little detail and I
know it isn't exactly like an easter egg
but a little moment was in the empty
conference room before we find out that
Margaret is dead is the is the moment
where sheriff Truman is sitting there
looking at like low-res maybe clip art
pictures of fish what the hell was he
doing in the dark in the dark just
insight into the psyche of sheriff
Truman just clicking away okay cool
I think Wally Brando had a good read on
him and finally you might have noticed
the music in this episode was from ZZ
Top and Otis Redding well David Lynch
gave an interview to Spin Magazine back
in 2013 where he said I love ZZ Top
they're one of my all-time great groups
the new album I'm really wild about I
love Jimi Hendrix and when he played
Monterey Pop and saying Wild Thing that
was an unbelievable moment I saw it on a
VHS tape in that same
tape I saw Otis Redding perform I've
been loving you I cried several times I
couldn't believe how beautiful it was
that's pretty cool actually that he was
talking about them sort of at the same
time and then years later they get woven
into the same episode okay let's grab a
couple comments from last week resisting
one on YouTube asked what if Twin Peaks
return is just a series of dreams and
hallucinations by hi Jerry horn in the
woods it wouldn't be the most satisfying
ending it's better still than Audrey in
a coma and this is all a dream but still
I don't know okay yeah I'll take Jerry
horn hi over Audrina coma Ian's Boothby
on YouTube said it feels like the
fireman speaks to everyone in a way
they'd understand for the British guy
like a superhero origin story for Dale
he talks to him like it's a mystery for
Andy basically a picture book you know
actually really like that observation he
did because we were talking a line of
[ __ ] last week about how is it that the
fireman gave really clear instructions
to Freddie and then everyone else it's
got to be like some kind of mind the
sonic Raven on YouTube rights I'm pretty
sure that Sarah Palmer has been
possessed by the mother she of course is
the mother of Laura Palmer however she
also shows up in the same episode and is
shown to be dangerous she is so powerful
NIDA would need to be locked up to be
protected and Andy must have seen a
glimpse in his trip to the lodge also
clearly the Palmers are very susceptible
to possession I agree I think there's
something possessing her that's for damn
sure
but we don't know if it's mother
experiment or now jumping man for all we
know it definitely feels like we're
building to Sarah Palmer being the
center of the blackness in Twin Peaks or
whatever is in her kitchen
Linda Judy okay everyone that's it for
us over here make sure to hit us up in
the comments section if we missed
anything down below and as always you
can hit us up on Twitter our handles are
in the description later guys